It made a good impression on a project that
involve to help the government
Mexican to break a commercial barrier
that there was during 80 years where mexico did not
could export avocado to the us and
then together with a wonderful team
of young people
among them a PhD student
that had the francisco díaz fleischer that
helped me and another 70 young people put together a
team because the producers of
aguacate de michoacán is the association
of packers and producers
exporters of michoacán avocado
together with the Mexican government
they looked for me to support them and be able
break what I called the myth of the
fruit fly and avocado and me
it was a very father challenge because it is where you
you can approach as a scientist
solve a real problem of society
and more people here in Mexico is the country
number one avocado producer at the
world and could not export to the market
more lucrative for a huge lie that
had invented the Americans in
the sense that they said that if mexico
exported avocados to there they went to
go with the avocados the flies of the
fruit that are a very terrible plague of
fruit trees and that if it had been a
terrible problem for them for the
citrus producers and many others
things in the US not then it was a
wonderful opportunity to work with
the productive sector to collaborate with
them and together with the government
mexican management authorities
of plant health with
authorities of the secretariat of
agriculture of the economy secretariat
etcetera make a great team
with scientific knowledge and
technological break with that barrier and it was
an incredible experience not where they
one the things that I asked a lot is that
this was not funded by anyone else
that by the same producers of
avocado then all the research
The they paid them in full one
new contribution of any kind of good
Mexican Mexican government had a role
fundamental
I repeat the direction of plant health and
other instances in all procedures
but the technical part was solved
avocado producers scientists and
It was a wonderful experience where
we work in their gardens where
entrance in addition an intellectual exercise
very father because in public hearings
that there was because this imagine you put on
very heavy there were even demands from the
avocado growers against
Secretary of Agriculture of the USA where
I had to act as a witness for
defend the agriculture secretariat that
I wanted to open the avocado market in
mexico because there was an economic interest
very strong then in that audience he
they put very heavy I first thing that
I told them as a scientist not that
we like the myths or the
occurrences I did not tell them to see what
we are talking about because you choose avocados
avocados of what kind of avocado the
avocado is a fruit tree there are more than
80 species of American persea that is
the genus and the species this I
I was asking everyone who
we are talking about which of them
study is good let's go to
circumscribe it to American persea and
Then I asked them and now tell me
they cultivated what variety because there are more
of 500
then one is that we focus everything to
American persea cultivate hash we already gave
a quantum step because we had a
focused problem and listener to the
Americans did not like that but
but they had to accept that they were like that
because all the evidence that they
they had and they used against
Mexican government
there he vanished because the bad news
is that if it is persea americana cultivate
hash there is not a single publication that
document that those are the pedros of
fruit flies good then the
American government said ok I bought you the
argument but now they show that what
what you are saying is scientifically
valid and then I said good then to
that challenge if he got it if then with
this team of people with many young people
we focus on a scientific method
very rigorous to prove that this was not
true and how wonderful the case is that
when we force these flies out of the
fruit that do not lay eggs in this
cultivate avocado
to lay an egg because there are ways to
click them somehow not the
avocado reacted very
virulent and this agent was defended
externally that we were getting into and
that was fantastic because that was the
stronger evidence that the
avocado hass even if attacked from
artificial way is defended in a way
so intense that there's no way that
this insect fulfills its biological cycle
that was the strongest argument that
where the Americans said you know
that there are dying not those producers of
avocado invested one million
dollars in this research and from 2004
that there was total opening because before
of 2004 there had already been dabbling with
partial openings in times of
winter where markets are also very
unprofitable when the
border in a total way throughout the year
all the USA have been generated from that era
for every 4.5 billion dollars of
revenues have been created more than 50 thousand
jobs
an investment of one million dollars